README.md, before:

# NoteEx

## Installation

1. Install ruby 2.3.1
2. Check if you have bundler by typing "bundle" in your command line. If no, run `gem install bundler`
3. Clone this project to your computer
4. cd into the project directory and run `bundle install`
5. test it's working by running `rails s` on going to your browser and visiting localhost:3000

## Development

For simplicity I put all the views under one directory. To find your html document, go to app/views/basic/

The routes can be seen by running `bundle exec rake routes` from the project directory. Take note of the prefix column.

your html documents can dynamically get info from the backend. To do so, use `<%= %>` to wrap the ruby call. To get the url of a page get the prefix from running `rake routes` and use `<a href="<%= prefix_path %>">my_link_to_prefix</a>`. For example for the profile page you use `profile_path` since the prefix for the profile page from `rake routes` is "profile".

For css and javascript, go to `app/assets/javascripts` or `app/assets/stylesheets` and place your scripts there. They will automatically compile into the application. Write as many or as few files as you want.

## Testing
Simple run `rails s` from the project directory and visit localhost:3000

Commit message:

Add user authentication and basic models
Models added for backend. User authentication added. Readme updated to
help you guys use what I put in place

README.md, after:

# NoteEx

## Installation

1. Install ruby 2.3.1
2. Check if you have bundler by typing "bundle" in your command line. If no, run `gem install bundler`
3. Clone this project to your computer
4. cd into the project directory and run `bundle install`
5. Run `bundle exec rake db:setup`. Subsequent times you can run `bundle exec rake db:migrate` since you don't need to create or seed the database again.
6. test it's working by running `rails s` on going to your browser and visiting localhost:3000

## Development

For simplicity I put all the views under one directory. To find your html document, go to app/views/basic/

The routes can be seen by running `bundle exec rake routes` from the project directory. Take note of the prefix column.

your html documents can dynamically get info from the backend. To do so, use `<%= %>` to wrap the ruby call. To get the url of a page get the prefix from running `rake routes` and use `<a href="<%= prefix_path %>">my_link_to_prefix</a>`. For example for the profile page you use `profile_path` since the prefix for the profile page from `rake routes` is "profile".

For css and javascript, go to `app/assets/javascripts` or `app/assets/stylesheets` and place your scripts there. They will automatically compile into the application. Write as many or as few files as you want.

### user authentication

for sign up post a form to `register_path` with params `username`, `password`, `password_confirmation`.
for login post a form to `authenticate_path` with params `username`, and `password`

If a user is not signed in, API calls will return `{ error: 'Authentication Error', msg: 'User not signed in' }`. For page requests it will redirect to login.
On signup if you fail to register, `@user` will be made available to you in your view. You should check `if @user && @user.errors.any?` before using @user or you may error.
You can then use
```html
<% if @user && @user.errors.any? %>
  <ul class="error-list">
    <% @user.errors.full_messages.each do |error_message| %>
      <li><%= error_message %></li>
    <% end %>
  </ul>
<% end %>
```
This will check if there is a user already attempting to be made, and if there are any errors. If so then for each error message loop, and print li with the error message
If you're really ambitious, you can prefill the form with what the user already tried to enter by accessing the attributes of `@user`.

## Testing
Simple run `rails s` from the project directory and visit localhost:3000
